
# 2023-07-Dinari
---
- Category: #services
- Note Create 2024-12-18
- Platform: Sherlock
- Report Url: [2023-07-Dinnari](https://audits.sherlock.xyz/contests/98?filter=results)
---
# High Risk Findings (xx)

---

{{Copy from High Risk Finding Template.md}}

---

# Medium Risk Findings (xx)

---

## [M-01] In case of stock split and reverse split, the Dshare token holder will gain or loss his Dshare token value

----
- **Tags**: #business_logic #missing_logic
- Number of finders: 1
- Difficulty: Medium
---
### Summary

Stock split and reverse split may cause the token accounting to be inaccurate.

### Vulnerability Detail

Stock split and reverse split are very common in the stock market. There are many examples here: [https://companiesmarketcap.com/amazon/stock-splits/](https://companiesmarketcap.com/amazon/stock-splits/)

For instance, in a 2-for-1 stock split, a shareholder receives an additional share for each share held. However, the DShare token holder still holds only one DShare token after the split. If a DShare token holder owns 100 DShare tokens before the split, he will still own 100 DShare tokens after the split. However, he should own 200 DShare tokens after the split.

Currently, users can buy 1 DShare token at the current market price of the underlying share. [https://sbt.dinari.com/tokens](https://sbt.dinari.com/tokens)

This means that after the stock split, a new Dshare token holder can buy a Dshare at half the price of the previous Dshare token holder. This is unfair to the previous Dshare token holder. In other words, the original Dshare token holder will lose 50% of his Dshare token value after the stock split.

The same logic applies to stock reverse split.

### Impact

The Dshare token holder will gain or loss his Dshare token value after the stock split or reverse split.

### Code Snippet

[https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-06-dinari/blob/50eb49260ab54e02748c2f6382fd95284d271f06/sbt-contracts/src/BridgedERC20.sol#L13](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-06-dinari/blob/50eb49260ab54e02748c2f6382fd95284d271f06/sbt-contracts/src/BridgedERC20.sol#L13)

### Recommendation

The Operator should have a mechanism to mint or burn DShare tokens of holders when the underlying share is split or reverse split.
### Notes & Impressions

#### Notes 
Since it supports the world's most trusted assets, It also supports stock splits and share consolidations.
- Stock Split: shares * n, price / n
- Stock Merge: shares / n, price * n

#### Impressions

*When smart contracts are associated with the real economy (stock, reserve, futures), it is necessary to consider the features and risks of the real economy.*

### Refine

- [[1-Business_Logic]]

---


## Audit Summary Notes
- {{summary_notes}}

## Tags
- Category: {{tags_category}}
- Priority:{{tags_priority}}