# 2023-01-cooler
---
- Category: #Dexes #CDP #services #cross-chain #NFT_Lending
- Note Create 2025-01-23
- Platform: Sherlock
- Report Url: [2023-01-cooler](https://app.sherlock.xyz/audits/contests/36)
---
# High Risk Findings (xx)

---
## [H-03] Fully repaying a loan will result in debt payment being lost
----
- **Tags**: #configuration #business_logic 
- Number of finders: 10
- Difficulty: Medium
---
### Summary

When a `loan` is fully repaid the `loan` storage is deleted. Since `loan` is a `storage` reference to the loan, `loan.lender` will return `address(0)` after the `loan` has been deleted. This will result in the `debt` being transferred to `address(0)` instead of the lender. Some ERC20 tokens will revert when being sent to `address(0)` but a large number will simply be sent there and lost forever.

### Vulnerability Detail

```solidity
function repay (uint256 loanID, uint256 repaid) external {
    Loan storage loan = loans[loanID];

    if (block.timestamp > loan.expiry) 
        revert Default();
    
    uint256 decollateralized = loan.collateral * repaid / loan.amount;

    if (repaid == loan.amount) delete loans[loanID];
    else {
        loan.amount -= repaid;
        loan.collateral -= decollateralized;
    }

    debt.transferFrom(msg.sender, loan.lender, repaid);
    collateral.transfer(owner, decollateralized);
}
```

In `Cooler#repay` the loan storage associated with the loanID being repaid is deleted. `loan` is a storage reference so when `loans[loanID]` is deleted so is `loan`. The result is that `loan.lender` is now `address(0)` and the loan payment will be sent there instead.

### Impact

Lender's funds are sent to `address(0)`
### Recommended Mitigation

Send collateral/debt then delete:

```solidity
-   if (repaid == loan.amount) delete loans[loanID];
+   if (repaid == loan.amount) {
+       debt.transferFrom(msg.sender, loan.lender, loan.amount);
+       collateral.transfer(owner, loan.collateral);
+       delete loans[loanID];
+       return;
+   }
```

### Discussion

### Notes

#### Notes 

- Danger of `delete` on Structs
	- In Solidity, when you delete a struct from storage, all its fields are reset to their default values. So loan.lender becomes address(0) because that's the default for address types.
- Funds First, Delete Last
	- **Always finalize financial transactions** _before_ modifying or deleting state variables they depend on.
	
### Tools
### Refine

- [[1-Business_Logic]]
- [[15-Configuration]]

---

# Medium Risk Findings (xx)

---
## [M-02] Loan is rollable by default
----
- **Tags**: #Initialization #business_logic 
- Number of finders: 13
- Difficulty: Medium
---
### Summary

Making the loan rollable by default gives an unfair early advantage to the borrowers.

### Vulnerability Detail

When clearing a new loan, the flag of `rollable` is set to true by default:

```solidity
    loans.push(
        Loan(req, req.amount + interest, collat, expiration, true, msg.sender)
    );
```

This means a borrower can extend the loan anytime before the expiry:

```solidity
    function roll (uint256 loanID) external {
        Loan storage loan = loans[loanID];
        Request memory req = loan.request;

        if (block.timestamp > loan.expiry) 
            revert Default();

        if (!loan.rollable)
            revert NotRollable();
```

If the lenders do not intend to allow rollable loans, they should separately toggle the status to prevent that:

```solidity
    function toggleRoll(uint256 loanID) external returns (bool) {
        ...
        loan.rollable = !loan.rollable;
        ...
    }
```

I believe it gives an unfair advantage to the borrower because they can re-roll the loan before the lender's transaction forbids this action.
### Impact

Lenders who do not want the loans to be used more than once, have to bundle their transactions. Otherwise, it is possible that someone might roll their loan, especially if the capital requirements are not huge because anyone can roll any loan.

### Recommendation

I believe `rollable` should be set to false by default or at least add an extra function parameter to determine the initial value of this status.

### Discussion

**hrishibhat**

Sponsor comment:

> Valid. Will default to false.

**sherlock-admin**

> Retracted since [https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-cooler-judging/issues/215](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-01-cooler-judging/issues/215) shows that there can be circumstances where funds lose value over the life of the loan

You've deleted an escalation for this issue.

### Notes & Impressions


#### Notes

#### Impressions

*Is Loan rollable by default？*
### Tools
### Refine

- [[1-Business_Logic]]

---
## [M-04] Dust amounts can cause payments to fail, leading to default
----
- **Tags**: #Revert_By_Sending_Dust #front-running #dust #business_logic 
- Number of finders: 4
- Difficulty: Medium
---
### Summary

Dust amounts can cause payments to fail, leading to default

### Vulnerability Detail

In order for a loan to close, the exact right number of `wei` of the debt token must be sent to match the remaining loan amount. If more is sent, the balance underflows, reverting the transaction.
### Impact

An attacker can send dust amounts right before a loan is due, front-running any payments also destined for the final block before default. If the attacker's transaction goes in first, the borrower will be unable to pay back the loan before default, and will lose their remaining collateral. This may be the whole loan amount.
### Code Snippet

If the repayment amount isn't exactly the remaining loan amount, and instead is more (due to the dust payment), the subtraction marked below will underflow, reverting the payment:

```solidity
// File: src/Cooler.sol : Cooler.repay()   #1

108        function repay (uint256 loanID, uint256 repaid) external {
109            Loan storage loan = loans[loanID];
110    
111            if (block.timestamp > loan.expiry) 
112                revert Default();
113            
114            uint256 decollateralized = loan.collateral * repaid / loan.amount;
115    
116           if (repaid == loan.amount) delete loans[loanID];
117           else {
118 @>             loan.amount -= repaid;
119                loan.collateral -= decollateralized;
120            }
121    
122            debt.transferFrom(msg.sender, loan.lender, repaid);
123            collateral.transfer(owner, decollateralized);
124:       }
```
### ### Recommendation

Only collect and subtract the minimum of the current loan balance, and the amount specified in the `repaid` variable
### Discussion

**hrishibhat**

Sponsor comment:

> Good spot. Niche case.

### Notes & Impressions

#### Notes 

1. Anyone can call `repay` the loan. Borrowers may need flexibility to repay loans.
2. Underflow: `repaid` can not be greater than `loan.amount`
3. front-run dust attack

#### Impressions

Repayments **cannot exceed the remaining loan balance**

### Tools
### Refine

- [[1-Business_Logic]]
- [[16-Revert_by_Sending_Dust]]
- [[4-Front_Running]]
- [[17-Dust]]

---

## Audit Summary Notes
- {{summary_notes}}

## Tags
- Category: {{tags_category}}
- Priority:{{tags_priority}}