# 2023-02-clober
---
- Category: #Dexes #Bridge #yield #cross-chain #staking_pool 
- Note Create 2025-01-08
- Platform: Spearbit
- Report Url: [2023-02-clober](https://github.com/spearbit/portfolio/blob/master/pdfs/Clober-Spearbit-Security-Review.pdf)
---
# High Risk Findings (xx)

---

{{Copy from High Risk Finding Template.md}}

---

# Medium Risk Findings (xx)

---
## [M-01] Group claim clashing condition
----
- **Tags**: #business_logic 
- Number of finders: 5
- Difficulty: Degree of Difficulty in Discovering Problems (Hard: 1, Medium: 2~3, Easy: > 6 )
---
### Description

Claim functionality is designed to support 3rd party operators to claim multiple orders on behalf of market's users to finalise the transactions, deliver assets and earn bounties. The code allows to iterate over a list of orders to execute `_claim`.

```solidity
function claim(address claimer, 
			   OrderKey[] calldata orderKeys) 
    external nonReentrant revertOnDelegateCall { 
	    uint32 totalBounty = 0; 
	    for (uint256 i = 0; i < orderKeys.length; i++) { 
	    ... 
	    (uint256 claimedTokenAmount, uint256 minusFee, uint64 claimedRawAmount) = _claim( 
		        queue, 
		        mOrder, 
		        orderKey, 
		        claimer 
			); 
		... 
		} 
}
```

However, neither `claim` nor `_claim` functions in `OrderBook` support skipping already fulfilled orders. On the contrary in case of a revert in `_claim` the whole transaction is reverted.

```solidity
function _claim(...) 
		private 
		returns (...) 
	{ 
	... 
	require(mOrder.openOrderAmount > 0, Errors.OB_INVALID_CLAIM); 
	... 
}
```

Such implementation does not support fully the initial idea of 3rd party operators claiming orders in batches. A transaction claiming multiple orders at once can easily clash with others and be reverted completely, effectively claiming nothing - just wasting gas. Clashing can happen for instance when two bots got overlapping lists of orders or when the owner of the order decides to claim or cancel his/her order manually while the bot is about to claim it as well.
### Recommended Mitigation

It is recommended to consider skipping already claimed orders to resolve described clashing claims cases.

### Discussion
Clober: Fixed PR 338. 
Spearbit: Verified. `claim` is skipping orders which could cause revert in `_claim`. Other functions invoking claim do have a proper check before `_claim` is invoked thus are not affected.
### Notes & Impressions

#### Impressions
*This is a typical issue, and we need to pay attention to it, especially when auditing transactions within a for-loop.*

```
// common pattern
for - loop
	logic code
	_f(...)

function _f(...)
	require (...)
```

### Tools
### Refine

- [[1-Business_Logic]]

---

---

## Audit Summary Notes
- {{summary_notes}}

## Tags
- Category: {{tags_category}}
- Priority:{{tags_priority}}